Docs 9551 - PM Admin Topics Review - ESB (#107)
mulesoft/docs-partner-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/edi-ack-reconciliation.adoc

  = EDI Acknowledgment Reconciliation

> As your trading partners return 997 functional acknowledgement transactions, Partner Manager automatically updates the acknowledgement status of your sent outbound EDI messages.

Reviewer: Webster's prefers the spelling without the "e" between "d" and "g"; note that the title follows this preference, but the text does not. Prolly should do a search.

Reviewer: Again, are we overwhelming sentences with unnecessary words?
```suggestion
As your trading partners acknowledge your messages, Partner Manager automatically and updates their acknowledgement status. If you want to be notified, you must specifically configure acknowledgment settings when you create the message.
```

If you are expecting to receive functional acknowledgements from your trading partners, you must xref:x12-send-settings.adoc[configure the acknowledgement settings] when creating the outbound message flow.

> When your organization receives the functional acknowledgement (X12 997) from the trading partner, the status of the corresponding outbound transaction is updated as follows:

Reviewer: See above; then consider following here with a simpler version:

Possible acknowledgment status updates include
* `Accepted`
* `Rejected`
* `Overdue`, if the acknowledgment is not received within the time period configured

Author: Done

* The status is updated to `Accepted` if the 997 indicates the acceptance of the transaction by the trading partner.
* The status is updated to `Rejected` if the 997 indicates a rejection.

> * The status is updated to `Overdue` if the the functional acknowledgement is not received within the  time period specified in the message flow’s acknowledgement configuration.

Reviewer: See above.

Reviewer: Then I would go directly to the subtopic  ==Review Acknowledgment Issues, but I would make it two subtopics:
==Troubleshoot Rejected Acknowledgments
==Troubleshoot Overdue Acknowledgments

The following are examples of the actions your operations team might take while troubleshooting acknowledgement issues:

* Retriggering the transaction from the backend system when reviewing rejected transactions due to missing data elements
* Asking your trading partner to confirm the receipt of the outbound transaction when reviewing overdue transactions

> 

Reviewer: Omit in favor of including in the Review topics

== Review Acknowledgment Issues

You can view all the outbound transactions that have either received a 997 rejection or that are overdue for the functional acknowledgement:

. In the left navigation menu, select *Activity*.
. Use the search filters to filter functional acknowledgments by:
* *Type* +
Type of message transmission:
** *Both directions*
** *Sent to partners*
** *Received from partners*
* *From Date* +

> Filter for transmissions that sent or received after this date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter for transmissions sent or received after this date.
```

* *To Date* +

> Filter for transmissions that are sent or received up to this date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter for transmissions that sent or received up [[and including?]] to this date.
```
